A U.S. Coast Guard helicopter lifts off during a medical evacuation of people injured in Saturday's 7.2 magnitude earthquake, in Les Cayes, Haiti, August 17, 2021.
REUTERS/Estailove St-Val
LES CAYES, Aug 18 (Reuters) - Days before a powerful earthquake struck, Rosemond Clermont paid the $1,554 rent on the office of his construction business in southern Haiti for the rest of the year.
On Saturday morning, the investment vanished when his small shop collapsed along with hundreds of other buildings in his home town as the coastal city of Les Cayes began crumbling.
"I don't know what to do.
I'm still in shock," said Clermont, 36, the main breadwinner for a family of four.
Dozens of businesses ranging from hotels, restaurants to corner shops in downtown Les Cayes and surrounding areas suffered a similar fate, with premises either badly damaged or flattened.
Clermont said the loss capped a tough few years.
He opened the construction business four years ago with the help of a bank loan worth $5,180 to supplement another job at a cell phone service provider, worried that he otherwise would not be able to feed his wife, daughter, 4, and 1-year-old son.
The loan saddled Clermont with a monthly debt of $207 that he is struggling to pay off.
"The economic situation is so much worse than before," he said.
"I owe money to the bank, we have nowhere to sleep, and I have my family to feed."
Since a devastating earthquake that killed tens of thousands of people in 2010, Haiti's economy has been buffeted by chronic political instability, drought and a major hurricane in 2016.
Opposition-backed protests against the government dragged Haiti into recession in 2019 before the coronavirus pandemic even hit, and a steady deprecation in the gourde currency has put pressure on businesses heavily reliant on foreign imports.
Haitian economist Etzer Emile told Reuters that in the past, small businesses have been overlooked in post-disaster responses.
"And that's the big mistake," he said.
"Because these entities are the very backbone of the national economy."
Clermont's family has been spending nights in the car since the earthquake, scared of possible structural damage at their home after they watched the walls shake violently.
The entire facade of Clermont's office has gone, and as he stood outside the now empty shell, he warily kept his distance from the battered building lest it crumble further.
"I don't know how to get out of this," he said.
"It's a crisis for me."
Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles.
Subscribe for our daily curated newsletter to receive the latest exclusive Reuters coverage delivered to your inbox.
Mexican security and migration officials early on Sunday blocked the passage of a new migrant caravan, detaining several people, as the government moved to break up the group just a day after it set off from southern Mexico for the United States.
Reuters, the news and media division of Thomson Reuters, is the world’s largest multimedia news provider, reaching billions of people worldwide every day.
Reuters provides business, financial, national and international news to professionals via desktop terminals, the world's media organizations, industry events and directly to consumers.
Build the strongest argument relying on authoritative content, attorney-editor expertise, and industry defining technology.
The most comprehensive solution to manage all your complex and ever-expanding tax and compliance needs.
The industry leader for online information for tax, accounting and finance professionals.
Information, analytics and exclusive news on financial markets - delivered in an intuitive desktop and mobile interface.
Access to real-time, reference, and non-real time data in the cloud to power your enterprise.
Screen for heightened risk individual and entities globally to help uncover hidden risks in business relationships and human networks.
All quotes delayed a minimum of 15 minutes.
See here for a complete list of exchanges and delays.
© 2021 Reuters.
All rights reserved
